Bug 1950543: document non-HA behaviors (#2522)
openshift/machine-config-operator: docs/SingleNodeOpenShift.md

# Single Node OpenShift

Single Node OpenShift (SNO) clusters have a single control-plane node and are not considered HA, whereas OpenShift clusters with multiple control-plane nodes are considered HA as control-plane functions can be rescheduled on another node.

## Differences

There are several key differences in how the Machine Config Daemon handles non-HA/single node clusters:

### Topology

> An annotation (`machineconfiguration.openshift.io/controlPlaneTopology`) is applied to all Node objects to describe the topology of the cluster. A non-HA/single node cluster is annotated with `SingleReplica`. In the absence of this annotation, the Machine Config Daemon defaults to `HighlyAvailable`. This primarily affects the node drain behavior as discussed below.

Reviewer: MCO reads `controlPlaneTopology` value set in [infrastructure](https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/master/config/v1/0000_10_config-operator_01_infrastructure.crd.yaml#L182) cluster object and sets that value into `controllerconfig`. Later on, Node controller reads `controlPlaneTopology` value from `controllerconfig` and adds an annotation (`machineconfiguration.openshift.io/controlPlaneTopology`) to all Node objects to describe the `controlPlaneTopology` of the cluster. A non-HA/single node cluster is annotated with `SingleReplica`. In the absence of this annotation, the Machine Config Daemon defaults to `HighlyAvailable`. This primarily affects the node drain behavior as discussed below.
```suggestion
An annotation (`machineconfiguration.openshift.io/controlPlaneTopology`) is applied to all Node objects to describe the topology of the cluster. A non-HA/single node cluster is annotated with `SingleReplica`. In the absence of this annotation, the Machine Config Daemon defaults to `HighlyAvailable`. This primarily affects the node drain behavior as discussed below.
```

Author: Done!

### Node Drain Behavior

In a non-HA/single node cluster, a node drain will **not** occur. This differs from HA clusters, where a [node drain](./MachineConfigDaemon.md#node-drain) will occur whenever required. 

### Authentication and API Availability

> In a non-HA cluster, all authentication and API services will be unavailable until the node finishes rebooting. If those services do not come back up due to a failed configuration change or update, debugging may require SSH or console access to the node. This is because the OpenShift web UI or CLI (`oc`) may be unavailable. 

Reviewer: Let's remove line `This is because the OpenShift web UI or CLI (oc) may be unavailable.` as reason of unreachable API can be anything that may not be MCO specific.

# Single Node OpenShift

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> This document highlights differences with Machine Config Daemon behaviors in both a highly available (HA) and non-highly-available OpenShift cluster. Single Node OpenShift (SNO) clusters have a single control-plane node and are not considered HA, whereas OpenShift clusters with multiple control-plane nodes are considered HA as control-plane functions can be rescheduled on another node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Single Node OpenShift (SNO) clusters have a single control-plane node and are not considered HA, whereas OpenShift clusters with multiple control-plane nodes are considered HA as control-plane functions can be rescheduled on another node.
```

## Differences

There are several key differences in how the Machine Config Daemon handles HA and non-HA OpenShift clusters:

### Topology

An annotation (`machineconfiguration.openshift.io/controlPlaneTopology`) is applied to all Node objects to describe the topology of the cluster. HA cluster nodes are annotated with `HighlyAvailable` whereas a non-HA cluster node is annotated with `SingleReplica`. In the absence of this annotation, the Machine Config Daemon defaults to `HighlyAvailable`. This primarily affects the node drain behavior as discussed below.

### Node Drain Behavior

> In an HA cluster, a [node drain](./MachineConfigDaemon.md#node-drain) will occur whenever required. However, in a non-HA cluster, a node drain will not occur since there are no other nodes.

Reviewer 2: Since this is focused on non-HA begin with that.

> In an HA cluster, a [node drain](./MachineConfigDaemon.md#node-drain) will occur whenever required. However, in a non-HA cluster, a node drain will not occur since there are no other nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a non-HA/single node cluster, a node drain will **not** occur since there are no other nodes. This differs from HA clusters, where a [node drain](./MachineConfigDaemon.md#node-drain) will occur whenever required. 
```

### Authentication and API Availability

In an HA cluster, authentication and API services can run on another control-plane node while a node is being updated. Debugging a failed configuration change or update can be done using the OpenShift web UI or CLI (`oc`).

> In a non-HA cluster, all authentication and API services will be unavailable until the node finishes rebooting. If those services do not come back up due to a failed configuration change or update, debugging may require SSH or console access to the node. 

Reviewer 2: again please lead with the single node/non-HA case.

> ## Supported Functionalities

Reviewer 2: Strike this section

All functionalities provided by the [MachineConfig API](./MachineConfiguration.md) and [MachineConfigDaemon](./MachineConfigDaemon) are currently supported, with exceptions discussed below.

> ## Unsupported Functionalities

Reviewer 2: Rename to Upgrades
